README.md, before:

# NgxPrinterDemo

A easy to use service to print the window, parts of a window (div) or an image.
Printing of Angular Templates or Components is possible.

You can print opening a new window / tab or using the current window.
A directive can also be used to mark and store an HTML-element.

Several usefull directives can further assist you.

See the DEMO App and [DEMO-Page](https://plaetzchen79.github.io/) for examples.


# Usage
1. Add to main *app.module* imports
2. Use the *NgxPrinterService* where you like via DI (private printerService: NgxPrinterService)
3. Use the the functions provided by the service

**Easy start**

The easiest way to print an HTML Element is 
HTML:
```html
<div ngxPrintItemMarker directPrint="true"></div>
```

## Options
### Open new window
The service prints by opening a new window.
There is an option *printWindowOpen* to change this behavoir.
Set printWindowOpen=false;

You can also set this option in .forRoot while importing the
module to the *app.module*

```javascript
    imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    NgxPrinterModule.forRoot({printOpenWindow: true})
  ],
```
### Rendering time
Before openening the print window the service to some time to render the print content.
Default time is 200ms.
You can adjust the time using the property *timeToWaitRender* (also in forRoot).

### Default CSS-Class
When printing to the current window the service creates an component with a
css-class called 'default'.
You can override this class name using the property *renderClass* (also in forRoot).
Make sure that the class is placed in your global styles (styles.css).

### Name of app-root
When printing to the current window the service searches the app-root component. If you have changed the name of the root component in your app you can override the name using the property *appRootName*.

### Position of image for directive 'ngxPrintItemMarker'
The maker image is placed to the bottom left. You can change this by changing the
property *markerPosition*. Use a value of the enum  *ngxPrintMarkerPosition* (TopLeft, .TopRight, .BottomLeft, .BottomRight).

### Print preview - not fire print event
If you want to display a preview without fireing the print event you can use *printPreviewOnly = true*. This can also be usefull for debugging purposes.

## Functions - How to print 
### Print current window
`this.printerService.printCurrentWindow();`

### Print div by id
`this.printerService.printDiv('idOfDivToPrint');`

### Print image src/url directly
`this.printerService.printImg('assets/bratwurst.jpg');`

### Print Angular TemplateRef or Component
```javascript
 @ViewChild('PrintTemplate')
  private PrintTemplateTpl: TemplateRef<any>;

printTemplate() {
    this.printerService.printAngular(this.PrintTemplateTpl);
  }
```
Beware: To print a component the component needs to be known by service (copy source and add it to entry
component of app.module).
Otherwise use printHTMLElement instead.

### Print HTML Element
```javascript
 @ViewChild(LittleDummyComponent, {read: ElementRef}) PrintComponent: ElementRef;

 printHTMLElementToCurrent() {
    this.printerService.printHTMLElement(this.PrintComponent.nativeElement);
  }
```

## Event of print window
If you want to check whether the print window is open or not subscribe to observable
*$printWindowOpen*

```javascript
this.printWindowSubscription = this.printerService.$printWindowOpen.subscribe(val => {
      console.log('Print window is open:', val);
});
```

## Directive ngxPrintItem
 There is an directive ngxPrintItem to mark and store an HTML-Element as an item which can be printed 
 later and anyhwere on the page.
 An id has to be set.
 These items are stored in the services observable *printerService.$printItems*.

 ### function 'printPrintItem'
 Use the async pipe to subscribe and then call the function `printPrintItem`  to print **one** item.

 HTML:
```html
<span id="firstPrintItem" ngxPrintItem printName="First one" >A <b>first</b> span with an ngxPrintItem directive</span>

<div *ngFor="let prinItem of $printItems | async">
  <span>{{prinItem.id}} - {{prinItem.printName}}</span>
  <button (click)="printItem(prinItem)">Print me!</button>
</div>
```
TS:
```javascript
  printItem(itemToPrint: PrintItem) {
    this.printerService.printPrintItem(itemToPrint);
  }
});
```

### function 'printPrintItems'
You can also use the function `printPrintItems(itemsToPrint, ?customCssClass)` to print more than one item.
The items will be printed beneath each other (simple flex css). To arrange them side by side you can set your custom
class as a second parameter.

TS:
```javascript
  this.$printItems.subscribe(items => {
      itemsToPrint = items as PrintItem[];
    });

    this.printerService.printPrintItems(itemsToPrint);
```

## Directive ngxPrintItemButton
If you want to print a single item from the list of ngxPrintItems (see above) or other HTML-elements without ts you can use the diretive ngxPrintItemButton. 
You can use
- an id of the printItem from the list
- a class name (className="ABC") of an HTML element
- an id of an HTML element (divID = "") of an HTML element
- an property to print the whole window (printWindow="true")

The Click-Event to print the item will be automatically set.

HTML:
```html
<button ngxPrintItemButton printItemId="firstPrintItem">Print first item directly</button>
<button ngxPrintItemButton className="printident">
  Print item by className with this button
</button>
<button ngxPrintItemButton divID="printDiv">
  Print div by id with this button
</button>
<button ngxPrintItemButton printWindow="true"> Print whole window with this button </button>
```

## Directive ngxPrintItemMarker
If you want to indicate an item as printable you can use this directive.
The default class adds a little printer symbol to the top left of the html element.

### Show marker/icon
Just display marker.

HTML:
```html
<div ngxPrintItemMarker>
```

### Print after marker click
If you click the little printer print starts immediately.

HTML:
```html
<div ngxPrintItemMarker directPrint="true"></div>
```

### Customization
You can override the default class with the `customClass` property.
Make sure that the css class is globally accessable e.g. put it into "styles.css".
You can also only override the image using the property `backgroundImage`. You can
speficy the data for the *background-url*.

### Event 
You can listen to the event 'printClicked'.

HTML:
```html
<div id="printDivMarker" ngxPrintItemMarker (printClicked)="printerMarkerClicked()">

<div id="printDivMarker" ngxPrintItemMarker customClass="mymarker" >
```

## Development server

Run `ng serve` for a dev server. Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The app will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

## Build

Run `ng build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `--prod` flag for a production build.

## Running unit tests

Run `ng test` to execute the unit tests via [Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io).


# Buy me a coffee
..if you like this lib ;-)

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/plaetzchen79" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-blue.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" style="height: 51px !important;width: 217px !important;" ></a>

Commit message:

#14 added detect changes, 2nd parameter

README.md, after:

# NgxPrinterDemo

A easy to use service to print the window, parts of a window (div) or an image.
Printing of Angular Templates or Components is possible.

You can print opening a new window / tab or using the current window.
A directive can also be used to mark and store an HTML-element.

Several usefull directives can further assist you.

See the DEMO App and [DEMO-Page](https://plaetzchen79.github.io/) for examples.


# Usage
1. Add to main *app.module* imports
2. Use the *NgxPrinterService* where you like via DI (private printerService: NgxPrinterService)
3. Use the the functions provided by the service

**Easy start**

The easiest way to print an HTML Element is 
HTML:
```html
<div ngxPrintItemMarker directPrint="true"></div>
```

## Options
### Open new window
The service prints by opening a new window.
There is an option *printWindowOpen* to change this behavoir.
Set printWindowOpen=false;

You can also set this option in .forRoot while importing the
module to the *app.module*

```javascript
    imports: [
    BrowserModule,
    NgxPrinterModule.forRoot({printOpenWindow: true})
  ],
```
### Rendering time
Before openening the print window the service to some time to render the print content.
Default time is 200ms.
You can adjust the time using the property *timeToWaitRender* (also in forRoot).

### Default CSS-Class
When printing to the current window the service creates an component with a
css-class called 'default'.
You can override this class name using the property *renderClass* (also in forRoot).
Make sure that the class is placed in your global styles (styles.css).

### Name of app-root
When printing to the current window the service searches the app-root component. If you have changed the name of the root component in your app you can override the name using the property *appRootName*.

### Position of image for directive 'ngxPrintItemMarker'
The maker image is placed to the bottom left. You can change this by changing the
property *markerPosition*. Use a value of the enum  *ngxPrintMarkerPosition* (TopLeft, .TopRight, .BottomLeft, .BottomRight).

### Print preview - not fire print event
If you want to display a preview without fireing the print event you can use *printPreviewOnly = true*. This can also be usefull for debugging purposes.

## Functions - How to print 
### Print current window
`this.printerService.printCurrentWindow();`

### Print div by id
`this.printerService.printDiv('idOfDivToPrint');`

### Print image src/url directly
`this.printerService.printImg('assets/bratwurst.jpg');`

### Print Angular TemplateRef or Component
```javascript
 @ViewChild('PrintTemplate')
  private PrintTemplateTpl: TemplateRef<any>;

printTemplate() {
    this.printerService.printAngular(this.PrintTemplateTpl);
  }
```
Beware: To print a component the component needs to be known by service (copy source and add it to entry
component of app.module).
Otherwise use printHTMLElement instead.
You can pass an optional context as the second parameter.

### Print HTML Element
```javascript
 @ViewChild(LittleDummyComponent, {read: ElementRef}) PrintComponent: ElementRef;

 printHTMLElementToCurrent() {
    this.printerService.printHTMLElement(this.PrintComponent.nativeElement);
  }
```

## Event of print window
If you want to check whether the print window is open or not subscribe to observable
*$printWindowOpen*

```javascript
this.printWindowSubscription = this.printerService.$printWindowOpen.subscribe(val => {
      console.log('Print window is open:', val);
});
```

## Directive ngxPrintItem
 There is an directive ngxPrintItem to mark and store an HTML-Element as an item which can be printed 
 later and anyhwere on the page.
 An id has to be set.
 These items are stored in the services observable *printerService.$printItems*.

 ### function 'printPrintItem'
 Use the async pipe to subscribe and then call the function `printPrintItem`  to print **one** item.

 HTML:
```html
<span id="firstPrintItem" ngxPrintItem printName="First one" >A <b>first</b> span with an ngxPrintItem directive</span>

<div *ngFor="let prinItem of $printItems | async">
  <span>{{prinItem.id}} - {{prinItem.printName}}</span>
  <button (click)="printItem(prinItem)">Print me!</button>
</div>
```
TS:
```javascript
  printItem(itemToPrint: PrintItem) {
    this.printerService.printPrintItem(itemToPrint);
  }
});
```

### function 'printPrintItems'
You can also use the function `printPrintItems(itemsToPrint, ?customCssClass)` to print more than one item.
The items will be printed beneath each other (simple flex css). To arrange them side by side you can set your custom
class as a second parameter.

TS:
```javascript
  this.$printItems.subscribe(items => {
      itemsToPrint = items as PrintItem[];
    });

    this.printerService.printPrintItems(itemsToPrint);
```

## Directive ngxPrintItemButton
If you want to print a single item from the list of ngxPrintItems (see above) or other HTML-elements without ts you can use the diretive ngxPrintItemButton. 
You can use
- an id of the printItem from the list
- a class name (className="ABC") of an HTML element
- an id of an HTML element (divID = "") of an HTML element
- an property to print the whole window (printWindow="true")

The Click-Event to print the item will be automatically set.

HTML:
```html
<button ngxPrintItemButton printItemId="firstPrintItem">Print first item directly</button>
<button ngxPrintItemButton className="printident">
  Print item by className with this button
</button>
<button ngxPrintItemButton divID="printDiv">
  Print div by id with this button
</button>
<button ngxPrintItemButton printWindow="true"> Print whole window with this button </button>
```

## Directive ngxPrintItemMarker
If you want to indicate an item as printable you can use this directive.
The default class adds a little printer symbol to the top left of the html element.

### Show marker/icon
Just display marker.

HTML:
```html
<div ngxPrintItemMarker>
```

### Print after marker click
If you click the little printer print starts immediately.

HTML:
```html
<div ngxPrintItemMarker directPrint="true"></div>
```

### Customization
You can override the default class with the `customClass` property.
Make sure that the css class is globally accessable e.g. put it into "styles.css".
You can also only override the image using the property `backgroundImage`. You can
speficy the data for the *background-url*.

### Event 
You can listen to the event 'printClicked'.

HTML:
```html
<div id="printDivMarker" ngxPrintItemMarker (printClicked)="printerMarkerClicked()">

<div id="printDivMarker" ngxPrintItemMarker customClass="mymarker" >
```

## Development server

Run `ng serve` for a dev server. Navigate to `http://localhost:4200/`. The app will automatically reload if you change any of the source files.

## Build

Run `ng build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `--prod` flag for a production build.

## Running unit tests

Run `ng test` to execute the unit tests via [Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io).


# Buy me a coffee
..if you like this lib ;-)

<a href="https://www.buymeacoffee.com/plaetzchen79" target="_blank"><img src="https://cdn.buymeacoffee.com/buttons/default-blue.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" style="height: 51px !important;width: 217px !important;" ></a>
